# Informed Search

## Reading Material Takeaways

### A* algorithm

Is a best-first search (based on an evaluation function = estimation of the real cost) algorithm

$$f(n)=g(n)+h(n)$$ with h being a **heuristic** and g being the **distance** to that point from start

How to choose heuristics?
- in Pac-man use the Euclidian and Manhattan Distance between positions

Example: Use Mahnattan Distance as heuristic

---

### Propose heuristics for 2 other problems

1. Find all Corners
2. Eat all food dots

---

## In-class explanations

### Last Lab cont'd:

Introduce different costs

### Uniform cost search
Prtiority Queue
- dont forget that costs add up
- go up from the BFS by changing the PQ

🍸Dont bother that much

---

# Informed searching
- use heuristic

### Greedy approach
- not discussed in our lab

## A*
- similar to UCS

Remarks:
- the same solution as ucs is found
- the number of expanded nodes in A* is 549 while in ucs ios 620

The autograder doesn't give points as there is the same issue as in UCS

### Modify Problem
- implement needed functions (in CornersProblem)

## Todo
- Implement the A* search algorithm
	- use Manhattan Distance as heuristic

# Assignment
- Implement something by choice Pacman
_Starting ideas_:
1. Heuristics for the Corner Problem
2. Heuristics for the Eating-All-Food Problem
3. Implement your own search problem (that is, the three functions getStartState()., isGoalState(), getSuccessors())
4. Heuristics for the Eight-Puzzle Problem
5. Other search algorithms (excepting A*, DFS, BFS, UCS)
6. Other A* related algorithms (e.g. Weighted A* etc., see for instance https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/A*_search_algorithm#Variants)
7. Experiments for comparing search algorithms
8. Other algorithms for multi-agent search (i.e. ghosts) ( excepting minmax and alpha-beta prunning)
9. Extend PACMAN with new senses/sensors  (not only position)
10. Extend PACMAN with nondeterminism/experiments in the non-deterministic environments
11. Develop Escape-Room games starting from the PACMAN framework
12. Competiton/tournament between PACMAN algorithms
13. Develop levels for the PACMAN agents
14. Design difficult/adversarial grids for BFS or DFS or Astar
15. Ms. Pac-Man
16. Extend Pac-man actions (e.g. warp tunnels etc. + experiments)
17. Design your own Pac-Man variant: (e.g, Eating all food with Pac-man and Ms. Pac-Man. When they meet, Jr. Pac-Man is created (maybe with a probability). Pac-Man has to decide between eating food or searching for Ms. Pac-Man, Which strategy is the best?
18. Adapt/extend the framework towards other Pac-Man variants (e.g., Pac-Man in time etc.)
19. Control Pacman with Local search algorithms

### TODO:
- Choose theme
	- [ ] Done
- Implement
- Document
